This is latd - a LAT terminal daemon for Linux

WARNING: This is beta software. It may not work properly and has many 
features missing. 

The daemon is purely userland code and should not crash your system but it
might. Don't say I didn't warn you.

It does not need DECnet support from the kernel nor does it need libdnet.
However, if you have libdnet installed it will use it to get the nodename
and default network interface.

You will need Packet Socket support in the kernel, but I think that's
usually the default anyway.

This software will not work on kernels 2.0 or lower.

As shipped it does not currently fork into the background and it issues lots of 
debugging messages to stderr. If you want a forking quiet daemon (say that
carefully) remove -DNO_FORK and -DVERBOSE_DEBUG from the Makefile. See the
file INSTALL for more detail.

You should start latd with the latcp -s command. Starting latd manually
is not supported and may result in unexpected behaviour. See the man 
page for latcp for more information.

If you can, please try this software and let me know how you get on. 
If you encounter bad problems please send me a tcpdump file produced with the 
following command:

tcpdump -wlatlog.dmp lat

I will be updating the software fairly frequently as time allows - please 
watch the linux-decnet mailing list for announcements.

This code is a clean-room reverse-engineering effort. I have no access to
Compaq technical documentation or source code for LAT and nor do I want any.

This software should work on all Linux architectures. I have tested it on
Intel and SPARC.

TESTING LATD
------------

If you have access to a DECserver and a terminal the I would be very grateful
for any/all of the following (in order of preference)
tcpdump of the conversation between DECserver-connected terminal and
VMS/Tru64. Please also (if possible) include a transcript.
tcpdump of the conversation between DECserver-connected terminal and Linux
running latd (as far as it gets!). Please also include a copy of the output
from latd and any messages that appear on the terminal.
Output from "SHOW SERVER" & "SHOW TERMINAL" commands issued on DECserver and
output from "MCR LATCP SHOW NODE" on VMS or "latcp -d" on Tru64

Commands to use:

$ tcpdump -wlat.dmp lat 
$ latd 2>latd.log

If you have a few LAT clients/servers it may help to restrict tcpdump
monitoring to the two boxes under test as in:

$ tcpdump -wlat.dmp lat ether host aa:00:04:00:b2:04 or ether host 00:00:f8:71:5f:63

of course, substitute your own machines' ethernet addresses.

Then send me lat.dmp & latd.log

Thank you very much.
Patrick


CREDITS
-------
I'd very much like to thank Eduardo Serrat for providing much help, trace logs
and encouragement in this reverse-engineering effort.

I would also like to thank Real Dupeux for sending me a DECserver 200 for
the project.

